.TH "command_page" 3 "Tue Jan 24 2017" "Version 1.6.2" "amath" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
command_page \- Statements and functions 

.SH "Statements and functions"
.PP
.SS "Statements"
.PP
.nf
clear       Clear the console window.
def         Define function.
delete      Delete variable or function.
digits      Set number of significant digits.
eval        Evaluate arithmetic expression.
execute     Execute statements in a file.
functions   Show list of user defined functions.
help        Show basic help text.
list        Show the content of a directory.
show        Show the content of a file.
load        Load variable and functions from file.
save        Save variable and functions to file.
variables   Show list of variables.
version     Show version string.
exit        Exit program.
.fi
.PP
 
.SS "Base functions"
.PP
.nf
abs         Absolute value of number.
sgn         Mathematical signum function.
round       Round to nearest integer number.
trunc       Discard fraction part of number.
floor       Mathematical floor function.
ceil        Mathematical ceiling function.
sqrt        Square root function (exp 1/2).
cbrt        Cube root function (exp 1/3).
lb          Binary logarithm function (base 2).
ln          Natural logarithm function (base e).
lg          Common logarithm function (base 10).
.fi
.PP
 
.SS "Trigonometric functions"
.PP
.nf
sin         Trigonometric sine function.
cos         Trigonometric cosine function.
tan         Trigonometric tangent function.
cot         Trigonometric cotangent function.
sec         Trigonometric secant function.
csc         Trigonometric cosecant function.
arcsin      Inverse trigonometric sine function.
arccos      Inverse trigonometric cosine function.
arctan      Inverse trigonometric tangent function.
arccot      Inverse trigonometric cotangent function.
arcsec      Inverse trigonometric secant function.
arccsc      Inverse trigonometric cosecant function.
.fi
.PP
 
.SS "Hyperbolic functions"
.PP
.nf
sinh        Hyperbolic sine function.
cosh        Hyperbolic cosine function.
tanh        Hyperbolic tangent function.
coth        Hyperbolic cotangent function.
sech        Hyperbolic secant function.
csch        Hyperbolic cosecant function.
arcsinh     Inverse hyperbolic sine function.
arccosh     Inverse hyperbolic cosine function.
arctanh     Inverse hyperbolic tangent function.
arccoth     Inverse hyperbolic cotangent function.
arcsech     Inverse hyperbolic secant function.
arccsch     Inverse hyperbolic cosecant function.
.fi
.PP
 
.SS "Example script"
.PP
.nf
round(1.5461);round(-1.5461);
ceil(43.5461);ceil(-43.5461);
floor(39.9531);floor(-39.9531);
trunc(23.827);trunc(-23.827);
sqrt(100);sqrt(52.23);
.fi
.PP
 
.SS "Example script with functions"
.PP
.nf
f(x)=x*2+1;
g(y)=y^2+y*1.5+2;
a=2;b=3;c=a+b;
vars;funcs;
f(2.2);c+1.1;
.fi
.PP
 
.SS "Example script with complex numbers"
.PP
.nf
cos(1+2i);
sin(1+2i);
tan(1+2i);
coth(1+2i);
sech(1+2i);
csch(1+2i);
.fi
.PP
 
